---
layout: post
title: First 2023 post, Patterns, IEEE TNNLS, ICBC23, SGX, Medical FL
---

Long time from last post on this blog. Lot of work have been done.
I have submitted "MIFL: Multi-Input Neural Networks in Federated Learning" to Cell Patterns. Experiments have been conducted together with Walter Riviera (from Intel). 
Here, we propose multi-input neural networks to leverage both image and tabular datasets in Federated Learning.

I have submitted "Experimenting with Normalization Layers in Federated Learning on non-IID scenarios" to IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks and Learning Systems.
Here, we extend the previously published FL benchmark (ITADATA22), considering normalization layers, batch size, epochs per round and number of collaborators.
While Batch Norm is the standard normalization layer for typical DL experiments, we showed that there are better alternatives in FL scenarios, such as 
Group Norm and Layer Norm. We also deepen into the frequency of aggregation, showing a trade-off between epochs and rounds.

Together with a colleague (Lorenzo Paletto), we passed the exam of Time Series. We proposed a different way of doing long-term crypto investments.
While standard Machine learning approaches use previously timestamp of the price and on-chain data (data producted by the blockchain) as input for the model,
we showed how on-chain data affect the price itself, and how forecasting on-chain data can provide a strategy to predict bull/bear markets, leading to
optimal asset allocations.

Paper with Perceive Lab has been rejected by IEEE TMI, and now is submitted to Computer Vision and Image Understanding.

I have been in Genova at Leonardo, and we talked of future work, possible collaborations and thesis. I think that the most probable way to collaborate
is working on SGX. There is a huge slowdown during FL expeirments with OpenFL and SGX. After 5 months of work, I think that the problem is not OpenFL,
is not SGX, but it can be: Gramine (the libOS used to communicate with SGX) or the machines itself. It can be Gramine because also typical centralized
experiments without SGX, but with Gramine, present this huge slowdown. But, on the same machines, there is a very little dradown even if without using Gramine,
so, for typical centralized training experiments. I am exploring the possibility that problem is Gramine. However, I will test simple experiments also
on other SGX machines, for examples Leonardo has 1 SGX machine (until now I have worked on machines provided by Intel).

Finally, with the cardiologists of Molinette I think that collaboration ended (not so good). Next friday I will start another FL project with other physicians,
also them from the University of Turin. I hope this new collaboration will be better.
